# Retail Sales Analysis Project (Excel & Power BI) by Ian Wendell Real
This is my first portfolio data analytics project. It includes data cleaning to data visualization. I've used ChatGPT for generating a raw data set, Excel for data cleaning, and Power BI for visualization.
## Before everything, here are the tools that I've used to make this project
- ChatGPT (For generating a raw data set)
- Microsoft Excel (For data cleaning & pivot tables)
- Power BI (For visualization)
## Dataset used
This raw dataset is generated by ChatGPT.  
<a href="">Download Raw Dataset</a>
# Procedures
## Data Cleaning
1. Removed duplicate data
2. The **Gender** Column has blank values. There are 3 major values: *Male, Female, Other*. I've replaced the blank values with *"Unknown"* to avoid misclassification.
3. As observed, the **Country** Column also has blank values. I've also replaced the blank values with *"Unknown"* to preserve the data, as Country is very important in this analysis
4. The **PaymentMethod** column also has missing values. Replacing it with *"Unknown"* to preserve the data.
5. Fixed the *"-300"* value in the **UnitPrice** column. It appears to be an error. As we can see, the Raw data shows that the **total** of the row is *-1200* and the quantity is *4*
6. The **Product** column also has blank values. I've also replaced it with *"Other"* to preserve the data
7. As we can see, the *UnitPrice* column has blanks. I've created a separate column and imputed the missing values by using *group-level Median* by **Product**
8. For the **Quantity** column. We can see that there are 93 *zero* values and 99 *Blank* values, and all of them have no totals, so we can't calculate them back. In the real world, I would confirm this with the business to just represent this as *"Error" or "Invalid Transaction"* or to just drop these rows, as this data is unusable for analysis. For this Time, I'm going to drop these invalid rows.
9. For the **Total** column. There are also errors and miscalculated values. Since the **Quantity** and **UnitPrice** columns were fixed. I've calculated it using **PRODUCT** to get the totals
10. In **CustomerID**, we can see that there is one blank value. I simply flagged it as *CustUnknown1* to keep the data
11. In the **Age** column, there are also blank values and one outlier, which is *"150"*, which I considered invalid. In this case, there is only 1.3% of missing/invalid data, and I've imputed it by using *group-level Median* by **Gender**
12. In the last part of cleaning, I've moved the recalculated values to the original column, and after that, I've deleted the recalculated columns.
